# How the current Internet is failing us?

First of all, I am a huge fan of the Internet and forever grateful for its existence. Most of my growth is with the help of Internet. But over the years, its whole landscape has change toward a negative direction that we all should be alerted. So this article I hope would be good enough to point out those bad apples in the basket.

## Too much censorship, too little transparency

Internet supposes to make the world flat, where everything is accessible by anyone and anything anywhere. It is not the case with the current version though. Censorship nowadays is not as how it was in the 90s but it still blocks people from information one way or another. Example of old-fashioned censorship is what the Chinese government is doing, they make their own search engine Baidu, their own social network Weibo to control citizens' flow of data. That blatant effort to refuse people's freedom is not so hard to detect, but there is a sneakier kind of censorship that was born later - the one crowded social platforms are using. Censorship is achieved when critical news is well diluted with unrelated news and your attention have already been paid so much that you get stuffed of information before reaching critical ones. Everyday there is war, plague or corruption that have been reported any here and there but they are well buried under a layer of tabloid news and advertisement. A lot of us has not been aware of how the bad debts is growing during the Covid-19 pandemic and how that will affect our life savings but there's high chance that you know what is the hottest drama of showbiz in your country. The drama is not a product of the artist itself, why it matters so much? We passively receive too much information with zero value of knowledge.

P/s: Don't feel bad alone, I also deliberately found out about the bad debts of my current using bank when trying to collect examples for this article. Before that I have no clue what is going on with my finance.

On the other hand, while data is abundant, they are short-lived and very hard to trace edit history. Say you have a link to my post about how the Internet is being awful, today it might be online but tomorrow it can be shut down because of many reasons or even its content is changed to say the opposite. Those things can happen without anyone knowing, even me - the author. My post is a minor case, no one will get hurt but what if instead of my post, it is the report page of a charity campaign? Duplicate contigency, event-sourcing system are available options to prevent those problems mentioned but it is not by default and only acknowledged by a small proportion of Internet's participants.